README.md, before:

## Password generator

This generator allows to create password(s) using phrase, salt and password length.
Password is generated from matrix, which contains random generated dictionary.

### How it works

Generate password is easy. Just call password_generator.py from command line with some arguments:

```
$ ./password_generator.py [phrase] [salt] [length]
```

All arguments are mandatory:

* phrase - some word, could be anything, like your girlfriend's name, site name for which you are generating password - whatever
* salt - some random value - again, it can be anything - PIN-like value eg. 1231, dog's name, twenty 'A' letters
* password length - remember, length of your password is the key to prevent it from bruteforce attack with tools like Hydra or John The Ripper - 30 and more characters is quite good idea here


Let's see some examples:

```
$ ./password_generator.py facebook mysalt12 32
P6vCahI3P6vCahI3P6vCahI3P6vCahI

$ ./password_generator.py mypasswordtoGMAIL mysalt12 40
ve]zo8PtrGMZmZoFnYvgD8n8PlvuoDIpha2ywqn

```

**Important** - you will get exactly **THE SAME PASSWORD** from each combination of phrase, salt and length using **THE SAME MATRIX**.

If you'll change matrix - you won't be able to get the same passwords anymore.


Of course, before you'll start to use this generator, you can generate your own matrix (see matrix_generator.py). Just run it and change content of matrix.py file with your result. Or create your own matrix by hand, if you want :)


### What is the idea?

Idea is simple - I just needed some way to generate long passwords with huge entropy using in some simple way.
My pattern is easy to remember (service domain as phrase, one word as salt and couple fixed length, because not all services accepts eg. 50 chars in passwords)

Even if my password leaks in data breach - I am _almost_, let's say for 99,9999% sure that bruteforce nor any known dictionary attack is able to break it.

Of course if it is not saved as plaintext :D But in this case nobody is safe :D

### Notice

I've used only diggits, upper- and lowercase letters for phrase and salt. You can modify this behaviour if you want.


### Some additional resources

Password recovery speeds                

http://www.lockdown.co.uk/?pg=combi&s=articles

Of Passwords and People: Measuring the Effect of Password-Composition Policies                    
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA              

http://cups.cs.cmu.edu/rshay/pubs/passwords_and_people2011.pdf

Commit message:

README.md - How to generate new matrix; matrix.py added to .gitignore

README.md, after:

## Password generator

This generator allows to create password(s) using phrase, salt and password length.
Password is generated from matrix, which contains random generated dictionary.

### How it works

Generate password is easy. Just call password_generator.py from command line with some arguments:

```
$ ./password_generator.py [phrase] [salt] [length]
```

All arguments are mandatory:

* phrase - some word, could be anything, like your girlfriend's name, site name for which you are generating password - whatever
* salt - some random value - again, it can be anything - PIN-like value eg. 1231, dog's name, twenty 'A' letters
* password length - remember, length of your password is the key to prevent it from bruteforce attack with tools like Hydra or John The Ripper - 30 and more characters is quite good idea here


Let's see some examples:

```
$ ./password_generator.py facebook mysalt12 32
P6vCahI3P6vCahI3P6vCahI3P6vCahI

$ ./password_generator.py mypasswordtoGMAIL mysalt12 40
ve]zo8PtrGMZmZoFnYvgD8n8PlvuoDIpha2ywqn

```

**Important** - you will get exactly **THE SAME PASSWORD** from each combination of phrase, salt and length using **THE SAME MATRIX**.

If you'll change matrix - you won't be able to get the same passwords anymore.


Of course, before you'll start to use this generator, you can generate your own matrix (see matrix_generator.py). Just run it and change content of matrix.py file with your result. Or create your own matrix by hand, if you want :)

You can do this in by executing this command in command line:

```
$ echo "matrix = `./matrix_generator.py`" > matrix.py
```

### What is the idea?

Idea is simple - I just needed some way to generate long passwords with huge entropy using in some simple way.
My pattern is easy to remember (service domain as phrase, one word as salt and couple fixed length, because not all services accepts eg. 50 chars in passwords)

Even if my password leaks in data breach - I am _almost_, let's say for 99,9999% sure that bruteforce nor any known dictionary attack is able to break it.

Of course if it is not saved as plaintext :D But in this case nobody is safe :D

### Notice

I've used only diggits, upper- and lowercase letters for phrase and salt. You can modify this behaviour if you want.


### Some additional resources

Password recovery speeds                

http://www.lockdown.co.uk/?pg=combi&s=articles

Of Passwords and People: Measuring the Effect of Password-Composition Policies                    
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA              

http://cups.cs.cmu.edu/rshay/pubs/passwords_and_people2011.pdf
